## Best Docs to Date
- [API usage overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/160921_biglearnApis/api_usage.md)
- [BL deployment overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/BiglearnArchitectureDeployment.pdf)
- [Drew's presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qoPqBLD4XqOsIfcM6aJH7IaDQRsxxuA6QBLy4GIZy7w/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Kevin's SPARFA Guide](https://github.com/openstax/sparfa-sandbox/blob/klb_sgd/klb_sparfa_guide/sparfa_guide.pdf)

## Biglearn Deployment

The vast majority of my time this week
has been devoted to testing/debugging `Biglearn`-related issues.

Mike A. seems to be moving along okay
on the python db stuff.
He's apparently close to getting
the SPARFA matrix calculations working,
which is great.

We had a walkthrough
of `Biglearn`-related features
this week.
It went so-so,
with several known issues showing up.
Specifically:
* anti-cheating wasn't working
* duplicate exercises in assignments
* students who had never answered an exercise could not get PEs
* performance was slow in several areas

Some of these have since been fixed,
and we hope to address the rest
before another walkthrough on Fri.

## Random Potential Future Research Question

**dante**

> yo I got a weird corner case for you...
>
> I'm trying to fill 2 SPEs in an assignment... but the 1-ago and 3-ago assignments overlap in at least 1 cnx pagemodule... and it just so happens that the ONLY assignable exercise from the 3-ago assignment is in that one overlapping pagemodule... so if we randomly pick that one for assignment 1 (even though there are other options for 1-ago) then there's nothing left for assignment 3 and this assignment will have less SPEs than other students' (assume no random-ago because this is one of the first 3 assignments and no PEs are available either) (edited)
>
> any ideas to prevent this? I'm thinking that maybe if one of the k-ago's has no exercises we need to search the other k-ago's instead of going straight to random-ago/PEs
>
> or we could always try random-ago before PEs, even if in the first few assignments...

**kevinburleigh**

> @dante @kim Without taking some _significant_ measures to avoid it, there will always be the potential for `Biglearn`/`Tutor` to fail when attempting to fill dynamic exercise slots, in which case we should (and do, I believe) remove the unfilled slots from the assignment.  So this should be the ultimate fallback position, IMO, and everything beyond this point is mostly a matter of taste.  That being said, we would like to avoid removing slots to the extent reasonable.
>
> **I think the scenario @dante posed above raises a particularly interesting question: Do we perform a search of all available exercises for "valid" arrangements and then choose the "best" one from the results, or do we (as we do now) apply a specific process and then deal with the possibility that it might've missed something?  The answer to this question has big implications for how we'd implement and extend things in the future, and for the kinda of guarantees we'd be able to make about `Tutor`'s behavior ("we didn't find an exercise..." vs "there is no exercise...").**
>
> (Basically we have a suboptimal greedy algorithm but maybe we want an optimal non-greedy one?)
>
> The other questions that scenario raises are more for @grimaldi: if the same `page-module` appears in multiple `k-ago` assignments (it was assigned multiple times), should we treat it as a single appearance or several when allocating dynamic exercise slots?  And if single, how should we choose the number of exercises it represents, and what should we do with its unused slots?  Is there a preference from a research perspective in how these `page-modules` are handled?
>
> (I sorta suspect the answer to the first is 'no' but want to double-check.)
