## Best Docs to Date
- [API usage overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/160921_biglearnApis/api_usage.md)
- [BL deployment overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/BiglearnArchitectureDeployment.pdf)
- [Drew's presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qoPqBLD4XqOsIfcM6aJH7IaDQRsxxuA6QBLy4GIZy7w/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Kevin's SPARFA Guide](https://github.com/openstax/sparfa-sandbox/blob/master/klb_sparfa_guide/sparfa_guide.pdf)

## Surprise Tutor/Biglearn Transfer Issue

There were gaps in the event sequence numbers on `-qa`
(sequence numbers are how `Tutor` and `Biglearn` agree on the order of events 
and know whether or not there are gaps in the data).
Dante has been investigating the issue,
and it seems that maybe some timeouts were too short
(apparently a db backup was happening at the time in question
and might've slowed the system down enough to trigger them).

## Dev/Testing/Release Woes

Copying the data from `-prod` to `-staging` is slow.
This isn't _too_ shocking,
but maybe we need to either
* find a way to speed it up
* consider using `-prod` for testing
  * yeah I know this sounds crazy but it's not the first time I've suggested something like this :)
* keep `-staging` and `-prod` in sync
  * this is easier with events
  * AWS has some new db features that could prove useful

## SPARFA Algorithm Scaling

Amanda has done a boatload of 
[awesome work](https://github.com/openstax/biglearn-sparfa-server/pull/31)
that should allow SPARFA to scale
to the size of a single instance.
Mike A. was nice enough to review it for us.

I have been working on getting SPARFA to scale across instances,
and I think I have all the individual pieces figured out:
* distributing secrets
* start up scripts
* autoscaling groups
* distributing the workload

What remains is pulling them together into a coherent repo
and adding hooking it into the existing SPARFA server code.

I've been creating a 
[summary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bmn2xYBURE90fiZrdNG5CN28vEBCPJbKukDTbUqntZ4/edit#)
of the technique I'm using.

## Feature Toggles

JP, Dante, Amanda, Nathan, Greg and I 
had a discussion of what we need from feature toggles.
A summary can be found 
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LUMeyMr-YLORO_RHMVSlQ1qxMQ0QLMFckFOPONBsu0w/edit).

Some things worry me about this task:
* `Tutor BE`, `Tutor FE`, and `Biglearn` might have significantly different use cases for these toggles -
one approach might not work for everyone.
* I'm pretty disconnected from `Tutor`, especially the front end.
* no-win scenarios (one of which is described below)

### The No-Win Scenario

Consider `Courses`.
Suppose we have a list of global settings,
and we also have overrides for specific `Courses`.
When we change a global setting,
any `Courses` with overrides will either be
* unaffected
* reset to the new global setting

Depending on the intent of the admin,
either of these scenarios could be correct.
So there doesn't seem to be a single approach
that can handle all scenarios correctly.

### Changes to Existing vs New

We probably want to handle the situation
where we want to change global (default) settings
on only new `Courses`,
without affecting existing `Courses`.
