## Best Docs to Date
- [API usage overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/160921_biglearnApis/api_usage.md)
- [BL deployment overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/BiglearnArchitectureDeployment.pdf)
- [Drew's presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qoPqBLD4XqOsIfcM6aJH7IaDQRsxxuA6QBLy4GIZy7w/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Kevin's SPARFA Guide](https://github.com/openstax/sparfa-sandbox/blob/master/klb_sparfa_guide/sparfa_guide.pdf)
- [Kevin's Autoscaling Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bmn2xYBURE90fiZrdNG5CN28vEBCPJbKukDTbUqntZ4/edit)
- [Kevin's Biglearn Autoscaling Big Picure](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JGcHIzmHDaDFlQvznzYgsWHuXBRis9qvtwF6pwaYVfQ/edit)

## Nested Stack Templates

I've converted my ginormous AWS template
into one parent stack
and several nested stacks
(one for API ASGs and one for worker ASGs).
This make it much easier
to change the behavior of ASGs
and grok the templates.

This broke my migration deployment script,
but I know how to fix it.
I just need to sit down and do that.

## Autoscaling Healthchecks

I've updated how autoscaling healthchecks are being done
to better deal with the idiosyncrasies of AWS ELB healthchecks.

Basically, instances always look healthy to the ELB unless:
* they experience some major connectivity issue, in which case the ASG will terminate them
* my monitoring script detects that the web server is no longer handling requests

It only takes a few seconds 
to detect when an instance's web server has gone wonky
and mark it as unhealthy.
It is then immediately drained of its connections
and terminated.

## Autoscaling Alarms

AWS's CloudWatch alarm system is similarly limited
when it comes to being as responsive and flexible
as we really need.

I've already created tools 
to compute how many (if any) instances
should be launched
in response to a backlog of work.
I'm going to fold this
into my recent nested template work,
which will make things simpler for devops
and also give the developer enough control
over how autoscaling should work for specific features.

## Back to BL API Endpoints?

I think that once I pull 
the healthcheck and autoscaling monitoring 
into my nested stack templates,
I can build a skeleton app
(probably using something like the student responses endpoint)
and make sure that everything scales as expected.

Previously, I didn't have enough instances
to see where the limits of my design really are,
but now that I have enough I should really do that.
