## Best Docs to Date
- [API usage overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/160921_biglearnApis/api_usage.md)
- [BL deployment overview](https://github.com/openstax/napkin-notes/blob/master/kevin/BiglearnArchitectureDeployment.pdf)
- [Drew's presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qoPqBLD4XqOsIfcM6aJH7IaDQRsxxuA6QBLy4GIZy7w/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Kevin's SPARFA Guide](https://github.com/openstax/sparfa-sandbox/blob/master/klb_sparfa_guide/sparfa_guide.pdf)
- [Kevin's Autoscaling Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bmn2xYBURE90fiZrdNG5CN28vEBCPJbKukDTbUqntZ4/edit)
- [Kevin's Biglearn Autoscaling Big Picure](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JGcHIzmHDaDFlQvznzYgsWHuXBRis9qvtwF6pwaYVfQ/edit)

## All of Last Week

So...last week did not go according to plan.

I haven't started to unpack
any potential implications
of what this means
for my future at OpenStax
or as a developer in general.

Hopefully some light will be shed on this
in the next month or two.

## Deployment Strategy

Once the new BL API is ready for use,
there are two potential rollout options,
each with its own pros and cons.

The first 
is to use the existing BL API database,
run some migrations,
and drop in the new code.
This _should_ work,
but there is some chance
that something (e.g., UUID mismatches across servers)
will fall through the cracks.

The second
is to construct all of Biglearn
(including the Scheduler and SPARFA/CLUE/PE calculators)
and then have Tutor re-populate it from scratch.
This would minimize the chances
of inconsistent UUIDs across servers,
but would involve more development
before anything gets deployed.

JP and I talked briefly about this last meeting,
but there probably needs to be some follow-up on it.

## Cleanup of Loose Ends

I did try to automate
the creation of IAM security groups, roles, and policies.
However, AWS treats IAM actions a little differently than other services,
so I wasn't able to get everything squared away.
There is also a bit of a chicken-and-egg problem
between LaunchConfigurations, ASGs, and Policies
which is keeping me from getting things exactly as I'd planned.
There are reasonable fallback positions,
but I'll probably try again in the near future.

I did cleanup a few specs
and re-enable the ability 
to do useful local testing.

## Stack Creation

I am in the middle
of automating initial stack creation.

My previous work on zero-downtime migrations
applied to an existing stack.
There are some relatively minor tweaks needed
when the stack doesn't already exist
(Mainly, the initial db creation and migration command
needs too be run before the ASGs are created.)
